the powerful organization Hezbollah
considered a terrorist organization by
many countries holds sway in many areas
of Lebanon its Fighters have been firing
Rockets into Israel Northern Israel
while Israel has responded with its own
attacks DW's funny faar went to the
district of kandak el kamik in central
Beirut where a combination of social
economic and religious factors have kept
Hezbollah and their Affiliates in
control despite the risk of war with
Israel
this is the Bayo District of Honda Alik
the name means the Deep trench it's a
poverty-stricken neighborhood with a
dangerous reputation Hezbollah leader
Hassan Nala is pictured everywhere but
you can't just walk in and start filming
first you have to meet with the
so-called Community
leader it's for our safety he says he
used to be a fighter for a militia
affiliated with
nzala says we are supporting Gaza so we
are now fighting to reduce tension on
Gaza Hezbollah doesn't want
[Music]
war Nala's words are seen by his
followers as the message of Allah on
Earth even as he talks of destroying
Israel his ideas echo in the
mosque Israel is our enemy we are a
glorious Nation
and we have glorious
leaders but Hezbollah is not only a Shia
islamist militant group considered by
many to be
terrorists it is also a political party
which with Allies won the 2018 general
election and even though it lost its
parliamentary majority in
2022 in predominantly sheer areas like
this one it functions as a state within
a failed state that means it funds
schools hospitals social institutions
services that because of the economic
crisis many communities depend on but
that has a price stack many have paid
with their lives as so-called Martyrs
for young people here the future looks
bleak lebanon's economy in Ruins its
infrastructure crumbling and there's no
functional government with all that this
district is considered notorious for
poverty and
radicalism every country is against us
but Hezbollah is with us when the time
comes we will go and Fight This Is Our
Land and we are with them Hezbollah
feeds people here a resistance narrative
Shia Muslims fighting Western domination
some dedicate their children to the
cause resistance means dignity my pride
my glory we were born to die to become
Martyrs I've already given two sons and
my nephew his sons are pictured here
both died fighting for his Walla against
Israel Maha yya writes on political
violence and identity building in
Lebanon she says Hezbollah has clear
reasons for providing services to
people these Services create a special
bond very very strong between the
families who are receiving these
services and
Hezbollah Hezbollah has the larger
social service network but also other
parties do the same so the main problem
is the inexistence of the
[Music]
state asa's power in hak shown to us as
we entered is always present for locals
many would not speak on camera but as
the prospect of war with Israel looms
not everyone even here is willing to
give up their children for the
cause I worry about them that maybe when
they see all the men fighting there is
something inside them that encourages
them to join I don't want my children to
join I've raised them from when they
were little until they were grown up
sending them to war to lose them
no people in this area will pay the priz
if there is a full-blown war with
Israel I'm joined Now by our senior
International correspondent funny faar
she is in Beirut tonight funny good to
see you I understand you visited a
district there in Beirut where Hezbollah
holds sway it's in
control what was the atmosphere like
there and are people afraid that war is
going to come to
them certainly across sect lines and
this is what I find quite interesting
that Lebanon is a very diverse country
as such it is divided on many issues
across sectarian lines but when it comes
to this issue whether people want the
war or not most people will tell you
certainly not a lot of people here have
vivid memories of the last war in 2006
between hisbah militants and Israeli
forces which erupted in the same region
and this highly disputed and volatile
border area between libanon and Israel
the very same location where we see an
flare of violence during the past four
months ever since in fact Hamas assault
on Israel and retaliation Israel attack
on Gaza and the ongoing war in Gaza so
people are very much concerned that
Lebanon will be pulled in one way or the
other into a full-blown War the question
is only by which party here by a
non-state actor as people refer to
hisbah the Shia islamist militant group
or by Israel as we heard in your report
funny this District it f functions as a
state within a state how does that work
and I'm wondering who or what is funding
it I think it's really important to
understand that here in Lebanon hisbah
basically originated from the Shia block
of of of this population uh during the
Civil War which was uh during the 70s
until
9090 uh however uh when hisbah was
created as we know it today in the early
80s Iran was very much behind that group
financing it and is financing this group
up until today which also means that
it's been considered in this region as a
proxy a non-state organization basically
part of this bigger axis of resistance
that Iran talks about with Proxes in
Iraq in Syria in Yemen and as a result
it functions as a state with an failed
State I would actually have to stay say
at this point because there's no
functioning government in Lebanon
there's no president at this point to
empower any government and in fact
hisbah is not just considered a
terrorist organization by multiple
countries but it's also political party
so it is sitting in the cabinet it is
sitting in the parliament in in many
ways it has a influence in calling the
shots both politically but also
militarily yeah and it's in a country
that has political problems severe
Lebanon is also in the midst of a
recession one of the deepest that the
entire world has seen for centuries when
you consider all of this does the
government in Lebanon does it really
have any influence whatsoever over
Hezbollah the situation is such that
hisbah militants are part of the
government as a party as we've pointed
out in the report as well and I think
this is what is often maybe not seen
internationally because internationally
what we hear is one thing that hisbah is
a designated terorist organization by
various countries but people forget that
it is really very much interlined with
parts of the society specifically the
Chia population of this country which is
about onethird an estimated onethird of
the country which also means that there
are other parts of society who do not
endorse the hisbah group and also not
all people who are Shia will tell you
that they are a fan of of of of hisbah
melians and their Doctrine however since
the state here is very weak and their
state institutions are incapable of
solving major
problems what hisbah does is really
received or or or as a fertile ground in
many parts of the society and a lot of
people here that I've been talking to
are saying that they're actually Fed Up
by two things that they feel that the
hisbah militants are hijacking not only
the Shia part of the population and
using and misusing their religion the
Shia Muslims but they're hijacking the
entire country yeah it's an excellent
explanation of how power is wielded in a
country that is paralyzed by crisis our
senior International correspondent Char
tonight in Beirut buddy thank
you